This is the complete EcoTraceIT review demo. It covers installation, initial setup, checkout, carbon estimates, PPWR packaging records, supply-chain evidence, reusable packaging, EPR and CONAI exports, and Shopify-managed billing.
Install EcoTraceIT from Shopify's review link and approve the requested scopes. The app then opens embedded inside Shopify Admin. There is no separate account, and the Free plan requires no card. Start the setup from Settings.
In Settings, choose English, enable the checkout carbon estimate, optionally enable Carbon Neutral on Pro, select the default carrier, set the offset price, and choose Save. For privacy, EcoTraceIT stores only a postal prefix for calculations and does not persist customer names, email addresses, or full addresses.
The dashboard opens immediately after setup. Order-created and order-updated webhooks estimate carbon emissions from order weight, destination prefix, and carrier. Monthly metrics, product and category breakdowns, packaging savings, and the storefront badge are displayed here.
In PPWR, first enter the responsible economic operator. Then create a packaging dossier with dimensions, empty weight, material layers, recycled content, recyclability evidence, minimization fields, reusable status, and food-contact details where applicable. EcoTraceIT supports operational record keeping and does not replace legal advice.
The Suppliers and Tests workspace records the manufacturer or authorised responsible signatory, supplier declarations, laboratory test evidence, certificate identifiers, validity dates, and file hashes. These records create a traceable evidence trail for each packaging dossier.
For reusable transport packaging, register each serialised or QR-coded unit against a declared profile. Then record shipment, return, inspection, cleaning, repair, and end-of-life events. EcoTraceIT counts completed rotations and preserves the reverse-logistics history.
The EPR and CONAI report aggregates packaging placed on the market by material and weight for the selected period. Choose the dates and download the CSV to support the merchant's declaration workflow. The report is supporting data and is not itself a CONAI filing.
At checkout, the UI extension reads a lightweight estimate and displays the order's kilograms of carbon dioxide equivalent without blocking checkout. When enabled and supported by the merchant's plan, the buyer can select the Carbon Neutral option. Results are saved to app-owned order metafields for the admin view.
Billing remains inside Shopify. Free includes the base calculation. Pro is twenty-nine euros per month and unlocks advanced reports and offset options. Enterprise supports high volumes and usage-based components. The merchant confirms any charge through Shopify's managed pricing flow.
Setup is complete. To test the full workflow, save the defaults in Settings; create or update a test order with product weights; inspect the dashboard and order block; complete a PPWR dossier; add supply-chain evidence; register a reusable unit; export EPR data; and verify the checkout extension on an eligible checkout.